---
layout: nav_menu_item
status: publish
published: true
author: Mark Essel
author_login: messel
author_email: messel@gmail.com
author_url: http://messel.myopenid.com/
wordpress_id: 4437
wordpress_url: http://www.victusspiritus.com/?p=4437
date: '2010-07-06 15:30:26 -0400'
date_gmt: '2010-07-06 22:30:26 -0400'
categories: []
tags: []
comments: []
---
<p>	Tyler Gillies: Brother in arms, Victus Media technical wizard, and tutor of web programming<br />
	AVC:Fred Wilson’s an idea engine and he takes on the role of Venture genius with an open mind<br />
	Kevin Kelly is my intellectual imagination guru. His thoughts and passion relate to a long fascination with the co-evolution of technology and humanity.<br />
	Kevin Marshall is a hacking machine and a big part of the Wow.ly team. I’m a big fan of speed at programming.<br />
	Howard Lindzon is fast becoming my goto source for stock market trends. He’s also fired up my curiosity about mining the $tocktwit$ stream<br />
	LM Framework: Dave Semeria is not only a sharp guy with a great sense of humor. He also is inventing the future web, in a modular fashion<br />
	Seth’s Blog: if you find Seth’s blog from mine, I’ll buy you a sandwich. He’s a prolific marketing blogger.<br />
	 Steve Blank shares his lessons learned like a true veteran going over the details of why things worked or failed in his startups and those he advised<br />
	 Cdixon.org – chris dixon’s blog is chock full of awesome advice for entrepreneurs, and investors<br />
	 Paul Graham’s Essays are required reading if you want to give your startup a FAT multiplier on it’s probability of success. He’s sharp like a monomolecular edge<br />
	 Paul Buchheit helped found one of my favorite social media companies. Then sold it because it was time to. He’s got a mind like a cyborg, but I love his perspective.<br />
	 Arnold Waldstein is passionate about the social web and its ability to transform our world, travel, art, his family and wine as a way to experience cultures and meet and enjoy people.<br />
	 Scobleizer, Robert Scoble’s startup, ideas, social tech blog.<br />
	 Louis Gray, social media master, tech follower, information curator<br />
	 Skeptic Geek, Mahendra eloquently captures the essence of modern information stream curation<br />
	 iN8sworld.net, Nate’s describes it best: This site is a personal online journal with no agenda other than to provide an easy way to continue writing and sharing ideas with friends<br />
	 Beyond the Cave, Vlad’s attempt to make sense of the shadows, and the startup he cofounded RocketHub<br />
	Byron New Media is run by Deano and his misson: Create and enable premium New Media Properties that enable and empower fans, followers, and fanatics to live better.<br />
	 Play Me Now, a society of fun games, images and ideas<br />
	 Howling Out Loud, a book review oriented blog<br />
	 Shana Carp’s Essays, always full of fantastic ideas<br />
	 David Pinsen author of Steamcatapult, and thehackensack noted I already have an imagination guru, so he’s offered to be my cynicism guru. Some would call Dave pessimistic, but I prefer the description pragmatic.<br />
	Jason Cronkhite‘s natural strength is being able to find connections between seemingly disparate phenomena, putting things or ideas together and then exciting people with his vision for the future.</p>
<p>My Facebook frien</p>
